SM64 CO-OP DX VR v0.6.0 - WINDOWS PLAYER GUIDE
==============================================

This is an active fan project. The PC and Quest standalone editions have not
been tested across every level, headset, multiplayer situation, ROM hack, or
mod combination. Keep a backup of your previous installation and saves.

WHAT YOU NEED

- A 64-bit Windows PC
- A PC VR headset and controllers with an active OpenXR runtime
- Your own legally obtained, unmodified Super Mario 64 US ROM
- Optional: a standard gamepad

Nintendo ROMs and game assets are not included in this download.
The OpenXR loader and its license are included. Required MinGW runtime
libraries and their license notices are in the licenses folder.


FIRST-TIME SETUP

1. Extract the entire ZIP to a normal folder. Do not run the game from
   inside the ZIP.
2. Start your headset software and make sure your preferred OpenXR runtime
   is active.
3. Launch SM64-Co-Op-DX-VR.exe.
4. When asked, drag your legally obtained, unmodified US .z64 ROM onto the
   game window.
5. Open Settings > VR and enable VR Mode.
6. Open Camera Settings and select Third Person Mode or First Person Mode.

The game remembers the validated ROM in its user-data folder.


INSTALL MODS

- Put extracted Lua/gameplay mods in the release folder's mods directory.
- Put extracted DynOS character/model packs in dynos/packs.
- Put compatible palette files in palettes.
- Restart the game, enable gameplay mods under Host > Mods, and enable DynOS
  packs from the DynOS menu.
- Avoid duplicate nesting such as mods/My Mod/My Mod/files. Install one mod
  at a time when troubleshooting.
- v0.6.0 includes compatibility work for Character Selector, multiple
  character packs, DynOS paths, palette paths, Lua HUDs, and VR menu display.


CAMERA MODES

- Third Person Mode keeps the character visible. It works with the original
  camera and SM64 Co-Op DX's free camera. Camera distance is adjustable.
- First Person Mode is the default. The headset controls the view and Mario's
  forward direction. The camera stick provides smooth horizontal turning.
- First-person movement locks body yaw to the selected facing source while the
  stick independently controls travel in every direction. Mario's normal speed
  buildup, landing momentum, and gradual steering inertia remain active.
  Deliberate left/right reversals and a direct forward-to-back flick retain
  separate skid/side-flip windows. A normal stick circle cancels those reversal
  gestures and does not stop Mario at east or west.
- Swimming, Wing Cap flight, and shell riding follow the direction you look.
  Normal action buttons are still used for swimming strokes and other moves.
- Tunnels, conversations, doors, and other scripted camera events continue
  running without pulling the first-person headset view away from the player.
- The character's head and normal arms are hidden in first person. Tracked,
  player-colored gloves remain visible. Torso and legs can be toggled.


CANNONS

1. Enter a cannon normally.
2. When aiming begins, the virtual view aligns horizontally with the cannon's
   forward firing angle.
3. Move your head to aim and press Jump (Right Primary by default) to fire.

Head movement remains free, but the shot stays inside the cannon's original
firing cone. Looking outside that cone gradually darkens the view and blocks
firing. Four Mario-style arrows point inward toward the valid direction.


DEFAULT VR CONTROLS

Move                    Left stick
Smooth turn / camera    Right stick
Jump                    Right Primary (usually A)
Attack / interact       Right Secondary (usually B)
Crouch                  Left Trigger
L button                Left stick click
R button                Right stick click
Pause                   Left Menu
Close fist / grab       Hold that hand's Grip
Right Trigger punch     Disabled by default; optional in Controller Settings
Victory peace sign      Hold Grip + Trigger on either hand during star/key pickup

Open Settings > VR > Controller Settings to remap the sticks and buttons.
A connected gamepad can remain active alongside the VR controllers.


PHYSICAL ACTIONS

PUNCH
Hold a grip to close that glove, then make a deliberate punch. The tracked
fist is the attack point. Mario's body does not have to face the target.

GRAB AND THROW
Close either grip while the glove overlaps something the game allows Mario
to pick up, such as a Bob-omb, Mips, or a baby penguin. Keep holding to carry
it at your hand. Release gently to drop it, or release during a faster hand
movement to throw it.

DIVE
Punch with both hands at nearly the same time. In the air this performs a
dive. While running fast enough, it performs a ground running dive. The two
types can be enabled separately in Motion Control Settings.

CROUCH AND GROUND POUND
With Physical Crouching / Ground Pounds enabled, lower your headset by about
one third of your calibrated standing height. Mario stays crouched until you
stand back up. Crouching while airborne triggers a ground pound.

BOWSER
Reach either glove to Bowser's tail and hold that grip. Move the held hand in
a turning arc around your body to build spin speed, then release the grip to
throw in the hand's physical swing direction. The camera stick can also help
turn. Spin acceleration and maximum
speed are adjustable.

HOOT AND MOVING ACTORS
Grip a supported interaction point to attach to it. Release the grip to let
go. Physical interactions use the game's normal interaction and networking
paths where possible.

CAPS
Touch a normal, Wing, Metal, or Vanish Cap with either tracked glove to
collect it. Mario's normal body-based cap interaction remains available too.

STAR / KEY POSE
While the star or key collection sequence is visible, hold Grip + Trigger on
either controller to change that glove into Mario's peace sign. Releasing the
buttons or finishing the collection sequence restores the normal glove.

PAINTING-EXIT HAT GESTURE
While Mario is jumping back out of a painting, bring either tracked glove to
the headset or just above it and hold that hand's Grip + Trigger. Either hand
can pull off Mario's cap. You can hold it for about one minute. Let go to throw
the cap into the level; it can land on geometry, be picked up again, or be
returned to Mario's head. Immersion > Grab Cap at Any Time enables this outside
successful exits and is disabled by default.


PHYSICAL CLIMBING

Physical climbing is enabled by default. Standard collision-based climbing is
disabled by default, so a pole or ceiling does not automatically take control
away from your hands.

POLES AND TREES
Reach a glove to the object and hold that hand's Grip. The held hand becomes
the anchor. Grab with the other hand to change anchors. Release both hands to
fall. Press Jump to dismount in your configured facing direction. Hold the
movement stick down while gripping to slide down a real pole or tree; this
does not apply to cheat-climbed walls or ceilings.

MONKEY BARS AND HANGABLE CEILINGS
Hold Grip before or while jumping into a native hanging surface. The game
sweeps the tracked hand path to catch fast jumps and triangle seams. Use the
other hand to move hand-over-hand. The torso and legs are hidden while a
physical climb is active; tracked gloves remain visible.

The temporary interaction collider follows the headset while climbing so
nearby coins can be collected through a small headset collider. To climb onto
a ledge, lift your headset over the ledge and let go of Grip; Mario will finish
on top when there is a safe floor. On release elsewhere, Mario is resolved
back to a safe playable position. Releasing both hands normally drops him.
With Swing Off While Releasing enabled, a fast hand release launches him toward the current
facing direction. If the headset has cleared the top of a safe ledge, a normal
release finishes onto that ledge instead of dropping below it.

CLIMB ANY WALL OR CEILING
The Cheats submenu contains a disabled-by-default option that allows grips on
ordinary vertical walls and overhead ceilings. Floors are never accepted.
Cheat-only surfaces require a fresh Grip press at close hand contact; holding
Grip before a jump only auto-catches poles, trees, and native hangables. The
wall constraint ends at the real triangle edge so a second hand can continue
around an open corner. Breakable, cap, and box surfaces can never be climbed,
even with this cheat, but retain their normal punch and jump interactions.
This can bypass intended routes and may encounter unusual modded collision.


VR SETTINGS

Camera Settings
  Camera mode, distance, per-character height, forward/back position,
  Headset/Left Controller/Right Controller facing source, facing calibration,
  field of view, and brightness.

Controller Settings
  Motion-controller input, stick selection, button mapping, and optional
  Right Trigger punching.

Motion Control Settings
  Physical punching/grabbing/climbing, standard grabbing/climbing, swing-off
  releases, motion dives, turn-on-landing, punch requirements, collider
  length, and Bowser spin tuning.

Model Settings
  Body Settings and Hand Settings. Body Settings includes torso/legs, the
  optional Feet Only view, crawling, ledge, pole-flip, and mounted-action
  visibility, and body placement. Hide Body While on Ledges is enabled by
  default for native ledge hangs and pull-ups. Hand Settings contains glove
  size, rotation, and positions.

Performance
  Render scale, an optional fully opaque FPS counter beneath the lives counter,
  desktop view on/off, and desktop mirror frame rate. Lower render scale or
  disable Desktop View if more performance is needed.

HUD Settings
  HUD opacity and corner spread.

Immersion
  Crouch/Sand Camera, Face-Stuck Blackout, Cannon Aim Direction Cone, and
  Head-Tracked 3D Sound, Side-Flip Camera Follow, 180 Degree Wall-Jump Camera
  Turn, Physical Crouching / Ground Pounds, and optional Camera on Body During
  Climb Up. Underwater Filter adds a light blue 25%-opacity tint only when the
  tracked headset is below the water surface. All Immersion options default on.

Effects
  Twirl Tornado Effect is enabled by default. During Shy Guy, Spindrift, and
  Tweester twirls, a small collisionless rotating white tornado remains at the
  character's feet for the whole action. It is 25% transparent and scales to
  roughly 75% of the selected character.

Cheats
  Climb Any Wall or Ceiling, disabled by default. Flying and Swimming Speed
  range from 100% to 300%. Running Speed ranges from 100% to 200%. All three
  retain Mario's normal 100% speed by default.

Experimental
  Flat first person, True First Person, True Diving (Camera Effect), Arms
  Mode, and original Mario movement.

True First Person follows animated body movement and might cause sickness.
True Diving follows the animated dive position only during dives and may also
be uncomfortable. Both options are disabled by default.
Every submenu has a Set to Defaults button.


V0.6.0 TEST CHECKLIST

- Confirm the main menu shows the current v0.6.0 version and the VR logo.
- Confirm long VR submenus scroll to keep the selected option visible.
- Move repeatedly through long menus and change several sliders. Text and
  labels must remain attached to their controls and never jump off-screen.
- Move selection repeatedly across menu buttons in VR and confirm the active
  button no longer flickers between two visual states.
- Lower Render Scale and confirm main/pause menu text remains full resolution.
- Test Headset, Left Controller, and Right Controller facing directions.
- Climb a pole/tree by holding Grip, change hands, release both hands to fall,
  and press Jump to leave in the direction you are facing.
- With Climb Any Wall or Ceiling OFF, hold Grip before jumping into the
  underside of BOB's first bridge, a wire-net/monkey-bar ceiling, and a native
  pyramid hangable. Confirm each grabs without perfect timing, supports
  hand-over-hand movement and coin collection, then drops or swings off.
- Stand on top of BOB's first bridge and close either grip. Confirm the player
  is not pulled through it. From below, confirm the glove must touch/cross the
  actual underside rather than grabbing from a large distance.
- On BOB's first bridge, pull with one hand, attach the other, release the old
  hand, and repeat. Each pull must move once and remain smooth; changing the
  active hand must not snap, reverse, or shake the world.
- While physically hanging, collect a coin at headset height. Jump off while
  looking forward and confirm Mario does not turn 180 degrees.
- Pull the headset just over a safe ledge and release without a fast swing;
  confirm Mario finishes on top instead of dropping below the lip.
- Confirm Standard Climbing defaults off and Standard Grabbing defaults on.
- Enable Climb Any Wall or Ceiling. Confirm cheat walls/ceilings require a new
  close Grip press, a held Grip does not catch empty/nearby geometry, corners
  can be rounded, and floors/blocks/cap boxes cannot be grabbed. Confirm those
  blocks still respond to punches and normal jump impacts.
- Confirm first-person ground movement matches v0.4.0: headset/controller-
  relative steering, the established reverse jog, and Mario's native skid and
  turnaround transition. Run forward, pull backward, then press Jump during
  the skid to verify side flips still work. Circle the stick in both directions
  and compare acceleration, momentum, and transitions with the official release.
- While entering backpedal from either side, press Jump shortly after reverse
  motion begins. Confirm both directions can side flip, but the opportunity
  expires quickly instead of remaining active throughout backpedaling.
- Enter a level/area-loading door and confirm the new room begins facing
  forward through the doorway. Stand completely still and turn your headset;
  Mario's hidden physical body should match that yaw without affecting motion.
- Touch each cap type with either glove and confirm it equips normally.
- Swim and fly through coins or pickups near the headset and confirm they can
  be collected without changing Mario's normal environment collision.
- Collect a star or key, then hold Grip + Trigger on either hand. Confirm that
  hand shows the peace sign only for the collection sequence.
- Successfully exit a course through a star/Bowser painting sequence, bring
  either Grip-and-Trigger-held hand to the headset grab region, and confirm it
  holds Mario's cap instead of showing a peace sign. Confirm either hand works,
  then release it: the cap should fall onto geometry, rest briefly, and fade.
  Confirm death and Exit Course never activate it.
- Set Cheats > Flying Speed to 100% and confirm normal Wing Cap speed, then
  increase it and confirm actual travel becomes faster without multiplying
  uncontrollably over time. Set to Defaults must restore 100%.
- Physically grip a pole/tree, pull repeatedly, change hands, and hold stick
  down. Confirm the anchor never drifts and the pole-only slide is controlled.
- Confirm crouching and sand lower the view smoothly.
- Get Mario's face stuck in soft ground and confirm the blackout clears when
  he escapes.
- Enter a cannon, look outside its legal bounds, and confirm the fade, four
  arrows, and blocked firing. Return inside the bounds and fire normally.
- Walk around a world sound source and confirm its left/right direction tracks
  the headset's horizontal position and facing.
- Jump into a painting and confirm the immediate white comfort transition.
- Play for at least 30 minutes and watch for frame-time spikes as new actors
  enter view. Interpolation records are now pooled per level to avoid repeated
  mid-frame allocations; also watch for climbing jitter, billboard problems,
  crashes, or regressions in Third Person Mode.


STARTUP SHADER CACHE

The game prepares common shaders when it starts. New shader definitions found
during play are stored in gfx_shader_cache.txt and prepared on later launches.
This is intended to reduce repeat stutters in levels and mods you have used.


KNOWN LIMITATIONS

- Windows and OpenGL are the only implemented OpenXR graphics path.
- Motion controls, physical climbing, online co-op, mods, and other headsets
  need more testing.
- True First Person, True Diving, and Arms Mode are experimental.
- The 3D star models do not currently appear on the Star Select screen in VR.
- Some original flat billboard objects can look unusual in stereo VR.


TROUBLESHOOTING

- Make sure the headset's OpenXR runtime is active before enabling VR.
- If Windows SmartScreen appears, confirm that the ZIP came from the official
  fulldivegames GitHub release page. This build is not currently code-signed.
- Windows Firewall may ask about network access because the game includes
  online multiplayer. Only allow the networks you intend to use.
- For diagnostic output, open PowerShell in the extracted folder and run:

    .\SM64-Co-Op-DX-VR.exe --console

- Include your headset, OpenXR runtime, GPU, reproduction steps, and relevant
  [VR] or [GFX] console lines when reporting a problem.


PROJECT PAGE

https://github.com/fulldivegames/sm64coopdx-VR

This is an unofficial fan project. It is not affiliated with or endorsed by
Nintendo, the SM64 Co-Op DX team, Meta, Virtual Desktop, or Khronos.
