VR SPEEDRUN TIMER / COUNTER - PREVIEW

VR Settings -> Speedrunning.
Speed Running Mode (Vanilla Game) temporarily overrides this build's custom
power-ups, VR cheats and speed multipliers. Saved options are retained; turning
the mode off restores those preferences, not previously active power-up timers.
Normal game caps, VR movement and voice chat are unchanged. Other mods are not
unloaded, so this is not certification for a particular speedrun ruleset.
Vanilla Movement (Restrictive Jumps) is independent: it suppresses instant
headset-facing turns on jump landings without changing the saved turning option.
Both options are off by default.

Choose Split Count, then press Confirm directly below it. Confirm applies the
count and resets the timer; changing the slider alone does not change a run.
Existing names are kept when changing the count. Name Your Splits opens editable
names using the usual keyboard (including the in-headset keyboard).
Confirm and closing the name editor save your setup to speedrun/local.json.
That local setup is restored next launch; imported files are not overwritten.
Enable Show Timer and Splits, then choose its size and position. The horizontal
range now extends 160 HUD units farther left than the old minimum. Text defaults
to yellow; Text Color offers the same preset swatches as the palette editor.
Start / Split starts timing on the first press, records a split on subsequent
presses, and stops timing on the last split. Reset prepares a new attempt.
Pause / Resume pauses the timer explicitly; opening a game menu does not pause
real-time timing. Completed split names and elapsed times stay in the HUD list.
Optional Reveal Splits as You Go starts with only the first split, then adds
the next row whenever you finish a split. Completed rows remain visible; reset
returns to the first row. It is off by default and does not change your run.
Up to 16 rows are visible together; longer runs scroll to keep the current split
visible. All Split Results shows the full list in the menu. Counter Only has
been removed. Names longer than the HUD row are shortened only for display.
Controller Bindings -> Timer Start / Split assigns the same action to a button.
It is unbound by default. Avoid assigning it to a button used for gameplay.

Open the timer settings once to create the speedrun folder alongside your mods,
saves and palettes in the game's user-data directory. On PC use the game menu's
Open Save Folder option to locate it. On Quest it is in the same SM64 data folder
where you put mods. Never replace or delete that parent folder to install setups.

Import / Export Setups is optional, and explains these actions in-game.
You can prepare setups on a PC and copy them to either Quest or PC:
- Copy a LiveSplit 1.8.x split file as speedrun/run.lss, then choose Import.
  Imports segment names and Personal Best RealTime values (up to 120 segments).
  Does not change the original file. This is a manual real-time timer, not an
  auto-splitter, and does not reproduce LiveSplit's Windows layout plug-ins.
- Copy a portable JSON setup as speedrun/setup.json, then choose Load.
  Example:
  {"version":1,"segments":[{"name":"First Star","best_seconds":60},
                           {"name":"Finish","best_seconds":120}]}
- Save writes speedrun/export.json, including recorded last_seconds values.
  Copy it between devices and rename the copy to setup.json to load it.
  Existing export.json is not overwritten; rename it before exporting again.

The preview importer accepts ordinary XML without DTDs, comments or CDATA.
Layout (.lsl), external scripts, Windows DLL components and network-connected
LiveSplit mirroring are not implemented by this portable timer.
